what is up youtube it's your girl evelyn
and
i am back with the season 4 episode 9
recap of wynonna earth
so sit back enjoy the video and as
always there will be spoilers
so proceed with caution episode 9 begins
with wynonna and nicole
sparring in the sheriff's office which
kind of felt like a throwback to
wynonna and dolls sparring in the
sheriff's office turns out the sparring
was
just a ruse to get nicole to consider
becoming
purgatory sheriff once again so i guess
last episode nicole was just playing
dress-up
for waverly the whole nicole not wanting
to be the sheriff's storyline
confused the heck out of your girl for
most of the episode i thought maybe i
had missed something
or nicole's ptsd was back but no
it was just a poorly conceived storyline
involving a chicken
elsewhere in purgatory a random dude
stumbles upon a dead body with puncture
wounds in its neck the dude remarks to
himself
out loud that the earp heir is going to
hate this
and then he howls so i'm guessing that
he works for the earp air
even though there is no erp air anymore
thanks to bulshar reversing the earp
curse back in season three
fascinating a quick stop by shorties
reveals
nedley getting ready for trivia night
which has become ridiculously important
to the entire town
for a reason we'll find out very soon
nicole and nedley also realized that
rachel freed reaper billy the episode
before last
but they're just like
[Laughter]
it is back at the sheriff's office
waverly and wynonna are doing a terrible
job
as acting sheriffs and jeremy is
performing an autopsy on the dead body
with the puncture wounds
wynonna assumes that vampire doc killed
the man
and runs off gleefully to confront him
at the glory hole
doc who has essentially become the new
aemon
denies sucking anyone's blood and
because wynonna is winona
she hits on him but doc's new demon bros
kick her out
because while wynonna was busy harassing
doc
another dead body with puncture wounds
was discovered but these wounds are
too far apart to be fangs so doc is in
the clear
also the body is missing its brains
as is the first body not really sure how
jeremy missed that in his autopsy but
okay also both the dead guys were former
trivial winners
and because this is purgatory we have to
assume that someone is targeting the
brains of smart people
so they can eat them and therefore
become smarter themselves
and that's exactly what's happening
after a tip from a rando
waverly and wynonna show up at doug's
house otherwise known as
kuru now kuru isn't a demon but a
very very stupid human long story short
one day stupid doug literally bumped
into jenny
an actual genie and became her new
master but instead of wishing to be the
smartest person in town
doug wished that all the smart people
would die
so he could eat their brains and absorb
their intelligence because he's stupid
doug's wish also made everyone in town
really
into trivia i guess i don't really know
i don't really get that part
after munching a few brains doug got
sick and realized he was suffering from
kuru a disease you get from eating
brains
so he just started calling himself kuru
again
because he's stupid back at kuru's crib
winona and waverly try to capture him
but he gets away so they take ginny the
genie into custody and hatch a plan
to capture kuru on trivia night at
trivia night we find out that
after nicole lost the sheriff's election
to holt she showed up to shorty's drunk
and embarrassed herself in front of the
entire town by drop kicking a fully
cooked chicken
okay anyway nicole uses the footage of
her kicking the chicken to distract from
you know what it really doesn't matter
back at the sheriff station
kuru pops up and decides that street
smarts
are really what he wants and wynonna is
the street smartiest person
in town but right as he's about to take
her brain
he drops dead from kuru how convenient
is that
wow wynonna eventually shoots jenny the
demon genie in cold blood
because apparently after shooting holt
in the back she's just about that life
i don't give a [ __ ] also nicole made
herself the sheriff again
and apologizes to doc for attempting to
trade him to mam clanton
to get waverly out of the garden because
well
i think we all knew that storyline
wasn't going anywhere
okay let's talk you guys the second half
of this season
has been objectively not great and
judging from the comment section a lot
of you seem to feel
similarly so instead of separately
recapping the last three episodes
i'm going to wait until the season is
over and recap them in one video
that will cover episodes 10 11 and 12.
and i do
want to sincerely apologize to those of
you who don't have access
to the new season yet but honestly
you're not missing much
also i do feel like my recaps are
becoming a little more critical
than i want them to be ultimately these
are recaps and not reviews and i don't
want to
dump on winona earp because there are
some very real reasons as to why the
second half of the season
feels a bit disjointed and i fully
believe that emily and
everyone that works on the show did the
best they could with the
limitations they had to work with so
yeah a little wynonna earthbreak coming
up
as always please let me know what you
think in the comments
i'll see you in the next one
[Music]
you